Valkey swift blog post (#315)
valkey-io/valkey-io.github.io: content/blog/2025-07-31-valkey-swift/index.md

Reviewer: The files are in `2025-07-31...` directory but the publish date is 08-04 (which I think is correct). Make sure you align them.

+++
title= "Introducing valkey-swift, the Swift client for Valkey"
description = "The new Swift client for Valkey is now in public preview. Learn about its features and how it brings the performance of Valkey to the Swift language."
date= 2025-08-04 12:00:00
authors= [ "adamfowler"]

[extra]

> featured = false

Reviewer: I think we should feature this - so swap it to "true"

+++

> We are excited to introduce the public preview of [valkey-swift](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-swift), a new Swift based client library for Valkey.

Reviewer 2: Could you define what a "public preview" is in this context? It may help to clarify which features are implemented (as well as which are not).

Reviewer: Also, I'd like 'Swift' to Swift.org

## The Client

> Valkey-swift is a modern swift client built with Swift concurrency in mind. Using Valkey from Swift lets you take advantage of a strongly typed API, Swift's memory and data race safety guarantees, as well as maintaining a very light memory footprint. The API uses structured concurrency; a paradigm designed to bring clarity to concurrent programming by using the structure of your code to define the lifetimes of tasks. The client includes the following features –

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Valkey-swift is a modern swift client built with Swift concurrency in mind. Using Valkey from Swift lets you take advantage of a strongly typed API, Swift's memory and data race safety guarantees, as well as maintaining a very light memory footprint. The API of the client uses structured concurrency; a paradigm that guarantees the resources you need during concurrent tasks are cleaned up when the tasks complete or are cancelled. This allows you to reason about your code locally, rather than worrying about cleaning up after resources the client uses. The client includes the following features –
```

An optional update that adds some detail around why the API using structured concurrency is beneficial to someone adopting this library.

1. Automatic cluster topology discovery and maintenance.
2. Command routing to the appropriate node based on key hashslots.
3. Handling of MOVED errors for proper cluster resharding.
4. Connection pooling and failover.
5. Circuit breaking during cluster disruptions.

The following example shows how to create a cluster client that uses `ValkeyStaticNodeDiscovery` to find the first node in the cluster. From there the client discovers the remains of the cluster topology.
```swift
let clusterClient = ValkeyClusterClient(
    clientConfiguration: clientConfiguration,
    nodeDiscovery: ValkeyStaticNodeDiscovery([
        .init(host: "127.0.0.1", port: 9000, useTLS: true)
    ]),
    logger: logger
)
```

All the standard Valkey commands are available to the cluster client. The only requirement is that if a command references two of more keys, they all come from the same shard in the cluster.

```swift
try await clusterClient.xread(
    milliseconds: 10000, 
    streams: .init(key: ["events"], id: ["0-0"])
)
```

## Try it out

If you don't already have Swift installed you can find install instructions on the [swift.org](https://www.swift.org/install/) site.

Start a new project...

> ```

Reviewer: If are you intending each command to be run individually indicate so either by individual command blocks or starting lines with `$` and indicating a response with `...`

e.g.

```bash
$ ls $HOME
...

> ```

Author: updated

    }
    group.addTask {
        try await testValkey(valkeyClient, logger: logger)
    }
    try await group.next()
    group.cancelAll()
}

/// Lets test valkey-swift.
func testValkey(_ valkeyClient: ValkeyClient, logger: Logger) async throws {
    try await valkeyClient.set("foo", value: "bar")
    let foo = try await valkeyClient.get("foo")
    if let foo {
        logger.info("foo = \(String(buffer: foo))")
    } else {
        logger.info("foo is empty")
    }
}
```

The code above creates a client. The client needs a background process to manage its connection pool so it sets up a `TaskGroup` which runs the connection pool background process concurrently with the `testValkey` function. The code in the `testValkey` function sets the value of key "foo" to "bar" and then gets the value of key "foo". If it returns a value it is printed to the log.

To run your code use:
```
swift run
```

## Get Involved

We'd love you to try the client out and get your feedback.
1. How does the public API work for you?
2. We know some features are not yet available, for example reading from replicas and Sentinel, but what other features do you think are needed?

> 3. Performance has been a major focus during development, but how is the client working out in your producation environment?

Reviewer 2: Typo: "production"

+++
title= "Introducing valkey-swift, the Swift client for Valkey"
description = "The new Swift client for Valkey is now in public preview. Learn about its features and how it brings the performance of Valkey to the Swift language."
date= 2025-08-04 12:00:00
authors= [ "adamfowler"]

[extra]
featured = true
+++
We are excited to introduce the public preview of [valkey-swift](https://github.com/valkey-io/valkey-swift), a new [Swift](https://swift.org) based client library for Valkey.

## The Client

> Valkey-swift is a modern swift client built with Swift concurrency in mind. Using Valkey from Swift lets you take advantage of a strongly typed API, Swift's memory and data race safety guarantees, as well as maintaining a very light memory footprint. The API uses structured concurrency; a paradigm designed to bring clarity to concurrent programming by using the structure of your code to define the lifetimes of tasks. This allows you to reason about your code locally. The client includes the following features:

Author: Resources sounds like memory, when it is really defining the lifetime for spawned child tasks. ie we don't exit until all child tasks have been completed or cancelled.

> Valkey-swift is a modern swift client built with Swift concurrency in mind. Using Valkey from Swift lets you take advantage of a strongly typed API, Swift's memory and data race safety guarantees, as well as maintaining a very light memory footprint. The API uses structured concurrency; a paradigm designed to bring clarity to concurrent programming by using the structure of your code to define the lifetimes of tasks. This allows you to reason about your code locally. The client includes the following features:

Reviewer 4: That is the thing, this does not just apply to spawned tasks, it also applies to resources like connections or connection leases. This is why we have `withConnection`. The same applies to `subscribe`, the subscription is a resource that we close down for the user.

```swift
try await valkeyClient.set("Key1", value: "Test")
let value = try await valkeyClient.get("Key1")
```

Each call to a command using `ValkeyClient` leases a connection from the connection pool to run that single command, so we provide an alternative where you can lease a single connection to run multiple commands as follows:

```swift
valkeyClient.withConnection { connection in
    try await connection.set("Key1", value: "Test")
    let value = try await connection.get("Key1")
}
```

### Pipelining

Valkey Pipelining is a technique for improving performance. It sends multiple commands at the same time without waiting for the response of each individual command. It avoids the round trip time between each command, and removes the relation between receiving the response from a request and sending the next request.

![An image that shows non-pipelined commands waiting for each response, and pipelined commands that send a burst of commands, a technique which shows the advantage of pipelining by submitting sets of commands quickly.](images/valkey-pipelining.png)

> Valkey-swift provides support for pipelining in a couple of different ways. First, you can do this using the `execute(_:)` function available from both `ValkeyClient` and `ValkeyConnection`. This sends all the commands off at the same time and receives a tuple of responses. Using Swift parameter packs we create a strongly typed API where each responses is its intended type.

Author: Yeah not totally happy with the wording here, if you have any suggestions

> Valkey-swift provides support for pipelining in a couple of different ways. First, you can do this using the `execute(_:)` function available from both `ValkeyClient` and `ValkeyConnection`. This sends all the commands off at the same time and receives a tuple of responses. Using Swift parameter packs we create a strongly typed API where each responses is its intended type.

Author: Using Joe's wording

```swift
try await valkeyClient.subscribe(channels: ["channel1"]) { subscription in
    for try await message in subscription {
        print(String(buffer: message.message))
    }
}
```

### Valkey Cluster

Valkey scales horizontally with a deployment called Valkey Cluster. Data is sharded across multiple Valkey servers based on the hash of the key being accessed. It also provides a level of availability, using replicas. You can continue operations even when a node fails or is unable to communicate.

Swift-valkey includes a cluster client `ValkeyClusterClient`. This includes support for:

> 1. Automatic cluster topology discovery and maintenance.

Author: Added "Election based" to the description

2. Command routing to the appropriate node based on key hashslots.
3. Handling of MOVED errors for proper cluster resharding.
4. Connection pooling and failover.
5. Circuit breaking during cluster disruptions.

> The following example shows how to create a cluster client that uses `ValkeyStaticNodeDiscovery` to find the first node in the cluster. From there the client discovers the remains of the cluster topology.

Author: For this post I'm not sure this is necessary.
